Public Riding School
Managed by the Hong Kong Jockey Club, Tuen Mun Public Riding School at Tuen Mun and Lei Yue Mun Public Riding School at Chai Wan are the public riding schools of Leisure and Cultural Services Department (LCSD). The schools provide a large variety of equestrian activities, such as group training classes, horse hiring, keeping horses at livery stables, providing venues for competitions, etc. to promote equestrian sport.  Besides, visit to the school by members of the public is also welcome.
Sailing Adventure
The Water Sports Centres of the Leisure and Cultural Services Department are offering a programme - Sailing Adventure, tailor-made for nature and adventure lovers. Click here for more details.
Beaches and Swimming Pools
Enjoy water fun in Hong Kong's public beaches and swimming pools. Check out the locations, facilities, safety tips and more.
Coastal Tour
The Water Sports Centres of the Leisure and Cultural Services Department are offering various thematic water sports activities in marine ecology and coastal geological features for nature lovers to admire the coastal scenery. Click here for more details.
Indoor Leisure and Cultural Activities for Families
Here you can learn about the indoor activities provided by the Government for families in Hong Kong, including cultural activities, sports, exhibitions in museums and library activities.
Popular Places for Taking Photos
Learn about the popular places to take outdoor photos in Hong Kong, ranging from rugged landscapes and heritage areas to our cityscape.
Outdoor Family Activities
Check out the fascinating places and facilities for outdoor family activities in Hong Kong, including beaches, country parks and campgrounds.
Leisure and Cultural Activities for the Elderly
Learn about the community support services, leisure and cultural activities available for the elderly.
Cycling in Hong Kong
Here you can get the points to note when cycling in both urban and rural areas, and learn about the organised cycling activities and competitive cycling in Hong Kong
Search for Leisure Activities
Find all kinds of community recreation and sports programmes organised by the Leisure and Cultural Services Department - Chinese dance, Tai Chi, table-tennis, canoeing and much more. Search by district, date and activity type, and enrol online through the Leisure Link Internet booking service.
Youth Event Calendar
Find details about cultural, educational and recreational programmes and events for youth.
First Aid
This article introduces the basic knowledge of first aid and the organisations that provide first aid trainings.
Hong Kong Wetland Park
This 61-hectare Park showcases the amazing diversity of Hong Kong's wetland ecosystem and highlights the need for wetland conservation. It provides an uniquely themed education and recreation venue for both local residents and overseas visitors, and is particularly suitable for school and family leisure visitations.
Parks with Special Features and Themes
Discover Hong Kong’s parks with special features and themes, and learn about what you can do when you visit them.
Hong Kong National Geopark
The 5,000-hectare Hong Kong National Geopark features world-class rock formations and geological features in Hong Kong.  Check out the geopark website to explore the rock wonders here.
Marine Parks
Learn more about Hong Kong's marine environment and diverse marine lives from the Marine Parks. Find their locations and learn about things to see and do.
Parks, Zoos and Gardens
Find information about the major parks, zoos and gardens in Hong Kong. Details on location, background, opening hours and facilities offered are available.
Country Parks, Hiking Trails and Camping Sites
Want to go to the countryside this weekend? Check out the information about country parks, designated camping sites in Hong Kong's country parks, hiking and family trails including location, transportation, facilities and maps.
Hong Kong Sports Institute (HKSI)
Hong Kong Sports Institute (HKSI) provides elite athletes with a quality training environment and support services with the aim of grooming the athletes to achieve good results for Hong Kong in international sporting events. Check out the HKSI and the support services offered to athletes here.
Government Subvented National Sports Associations
Check out here the contact information of subvented national sports associations.
The Sports Federation & Olympic Committee of Hong Kong, China
Find out information about Hong Kong delegations in the Olympics and other multi-sports games, including latest news on medal winners, sports stars interviews, special events and much more.
